.TH CHA 1
.SH NAME
cha - the Chawan text-mode browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cha
[\fBoptions\fR]
[\fIURL(s) \fRor \fIfile(s)\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chawan is a text-mode browser. It can be used as a pager, or as a
web/FTP/gopher/file browser, and understands HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
Chawan can also be used to as a general text-based document viewer using
\fBmailcap\fR(5) extensions.

Like \fBw3m\fR(1), Chawan organizes files and pages into buffers. The user
can freely open, duplicate, delete, and navigate between these.

.SH ARGUMENTS
On invocation, Chawan looks through all arguments provided, and attempts
to open each file supplied. If no files could successfully be opened, Chawan
exits automatically.

Chawan may also be started without specifying a file, if a file is provided
through a pipe. In this case, it may be useful to set the content type using
e.g. \fB\-T \fItext/html\fR. (The \fB-\fR pseudo-file argument, commonly accepted
by other commands to mean "pipe input", is simply ignored.)

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options generally have both short forms (e.g. \fB\-d\fR) and long
forms (e.g. \fB\-\-dump\fR).

Long forms must be introduced with two dashes; when only a single dash is
provided, each letter is parsed as a separate short form.
.br
(e.g. \fB\-abcd\fR is equivalent to \fB\-a \-b \-c \-d\fR, \fInot\fR
\fB\-\-abcd\fR.)

.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-dump\fR
Start in headless mode, and sequentially print the opened files to stdout.
This option is implicitly enabled if stdout is not a tty (e.g. when piping
\fIcha\fR output).
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-opt\fR \fIconfig\fR
Override configuration options. This accepts the configuration format is
described in \fBcha-config\fR(5), in other words the passed string must be
valid TOML.

(The sole exception is quoting: to ease specifying string
parameters, unrecognized bare keywords are converted to strings. So this
works: \fB--opt\fR abcd.option-name=\fIoption-value\fR. However, symbols must
still be quoted.)
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-css\fR \fIstylesheet\fR
Temporarily modify the user stylesheet. If a user stylesheet is already
being used, the stylesheet given is appended to that.
.TP
\fB\-T, \-\-type\fR \fIcontent-type\fR
Override the content type of all input files. Useful when the content type
cannot be guessed from the file extension, or when reading a non-plaintext
file from stdin.
.TP
\fB\-I, \-\-input-charset\fR \fIcharset\fR
Override the character set of all input files. Useful when Chawan is
incorrectly recognizing the input character set. (Note: if this happens
often, consider changing the default input charset recognition list
\fIencoding.document-charset\fR in the configuration.)
.TP
\fB\-O, \-\-output-charset\fR \fIcharset\fR
Override the output character set. This is a shortcut for
\fB\-o encoding.display\-charset=\fIcharset\fR.
.TP
\fB\-M, \-\-monochrome\fR
Override the output character set. This is a shortcut for
\fB\-o display.color\-mode=\fImonochrome\fR.
.TP
\fB\-V, \-\-visual\fR
Start in visual mode: the page specified in \fIstart.visual-home\fR is opened.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-run\fR \fIscript\fR/\fIfile\fR
Execute the string provided as a JS script, or execute the supplied JS
file. If the file ends in .mjs, it is executed as an ES module.
.br
(To execute an inline script as a module, the following hack can be used:
.br
\fIcha \fB-r \fR'await new Promise(x => setTimeout(x, 1000));
console.log("hello from ESM!"); //.mjs'
.br
In other words, we add a comment \fI//.mjs\fR to the end of the script.)
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a short version of this page, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Print information about the browser's version, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fP
Interpret all following arguments as files. (e.g. if you have a file named
\fI\-o\fR, open it as \fIcha \fB--\fR \fI-o\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Certain environment variables are read and used by Chawan.

.TP
\fBHTTP_HOME\fR, \fBWWW_HOME\fR
When set, Chawan starts in visual mode by default and opens the page specified
by one of these variables. (\fBHTTP_HOME\fR takes precedence over
\fBWWW_HOME\fR.)
.TP
\fBCOLORTERM\fR
When set to \fI24bit\fR or \fItruecolor\fR, and the \fIdisplay.color-mode\fR
configuration option is set to \fIauto\fR, Chawan sets the color mode to
true color.
.TP
\fBTERM\fR
Used by Chawan to determine which termcap entry to load. When not set,
defaults to \fIdosansi\fR.
.TP
\fBEDITOR\fR
Used to determine the editor to use when the \fIexternal.editor\fR
configuration option is not set.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration options are described in \fBcha-config\fR(5).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcha-mailcap\fR(5), \fBcha-mime.types\fR(5), \fBcha-config\fR(5),
.br
\fBcha-localcgi\fR(5) \fBcha-urimethodmap\fR(5)
