.TH MANCHA 1

.SH NAME
mancha - view manual pages via cha(1)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mancha
[\fB\-M \fIpath\fR] [\fIsection\fR] \fIname\fR
.br
.B mancha
[\fB\-M \fIpath\fR] [\fIsection\fR] \-k \fIkeyword\fR
.br
.B mancha
-l \fIfile\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmancha\fR enables viewing man pages using the Chawan browser. It is analogous
to the \fBw3mman\fR(1) utility.

\fBmancha\fR will call \fBcha\fR(1) with the appropriate \fIman:\fR,
\fIman\-k:\fR or \fIman\-l:\fR URLs. The protocol adapter then opens the man
page and injects markup into it, e.g. man page references are converted into
\fIman:\fR links.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are:

.TP
\fB\-M \fIpath\fR
Set \fIpath\fR as the MANPATH environment variable. See \fBman\fR(1) for
details of how this is interpreted.
.TP
\fB\-k \fIkeyword\fR
Use \fIkeyword\fR for keyword-based man page search.
.TP
\fB\-l \fIfile\fR
Open the specified local \fIfile\fR as a man page.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Following environment variables are used:

.TP
.B MANCHA_CHA
If set, the contents of the variable are used instead of \fIcha\fR. (Note that
the \fIcha\fR command is called through \fBsystem\fR(3), so you do not have to
override it so long as \fIcha\fR is found in your \fBPATH\fR.)

.TP
.B MANCHA_MAN
If set, the contents of the variable are used instead of \fI/usr/bin/man\fR.

.TP
.B MANCHA_APROPOS
If set, the contents of the variable are used instead of \fI/usr/bin/man\fR.

(This is not a typo; normally (except on FreeBSD), \fBmancha\fR assumes that
\fBman\fR(1) is compatible with \fBapropos\fR(1) and accepts the \fI\-s\fR
parameter. Overriding \fBMANCHA_MAN\fR therefore also overrides the command used
for \fBman\-k\fR, so long as \fBMANCHA_APROPOS\fR is not set.)

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBman\fR(1), \fBcha\fR(1), \fBcha-localcgi\fR(5), \fBw3mman\fR(1)
